[Chore] tools: add offline OTA image builder (#252)
tier4/ota-client: tools/offline_ota_image_builder/README.md

# Offline OTA image builder

> `tools.offline_ota_image_builder` is a helper package for building offline OTA image from several input OTA images. Built image can be used as external cache source for otaproxy, or used by full offline OTA helper util to trigger fully offline OTA update.

Author: Ah I think the `input` word is not needed. 

What about the following updated one:
`tools.offline_ota_image_builder is a helper package for bundling several OTA images into one offline OTA image.`

> `tools.offline_ota_image_builder` is a helper package for building offline OTA image from several input OTA images. Built image can be used as external cache source for otaproxy, or used by full offline OTA helper util to trigger fully offline OTA update.

Reviewer: It seems it is difficult to understand the difference `several OTA images` and `one offline OTA image.` in this sentence.

What about this sentence?
```
tools.offline_ota_image_builder is a helper package for bundling offline OTA image from the OTA images build by ota-metadata.
```

**NOTE**: full offline OTA helper util is not yet implemented.

It provides the following features:

1. build offline OTA image with several input OTA images,
2. export built image as tar archive,

> 3. prepare and export built image onto specific block device as external cache source dev.

Reviewer: `external cache source dev` is source device? (what is `dev`?)

Author: Ah the word `external cache source` is the terminology from the [OTA cache mechanism design documentation](https://tier4.atlassian.net/l/cp/iSPEDWhT), which means cache source that can be used by otaproxy.
`dev` here means `device`, especially stands for block device. I should not use abbreviation here.

What about the following updated one:
`prepare specific block device, export built image onto it and turns it into an external cache source device(for otaproxy)`.

> Please check documentation at [OTA cache mechanism design for otaproxy](https://tier4.atlassian.net/l/cp/yzmnPx9T) for more details.

Reviewer: This link is not valid for public user. (It is OK if there is note that the link is for the internal developer)

Author: Emmm yes currently all documents are hosted on confluence. I will temporarily remove the link here.

## Expected image layout for input OTA images

Please refere to [ota-metadata](https://github.com/tier4/ota-metadata) repo for OTA image layout specification.

> This tool is implemented based on the image layout implemented in [ota-metadata@a711013](https://github.com/tier4/ota-metadata/commit/a711013).

Reviewer: What do you mean by `This tool is implemented based on the image layout`?
Is this means `This tool is implemented based on the image layout as a input OTA image`?

Author: Ah what I mean here is this tool expecting the input OTA images has the same image layout with the image generated by `ota-metadata`.

What about the following rephrased sentence:
This package currently only recognizes the OTA image generated by [ota-metadata@a711013](https://github.com/tier4/ota-metadata/commit/a711013) script, or the image layout compatible with the `ota-metadata` specification.

Reviewer: > What about the following rephrased sentence:

Good!

```text
Example OTA image layout:
.
├── data
│   ├── <...files with full paths...>
│   └── ...
├── data.zst
│   ├── <... compressed OTA file ...>
│   └── <... naming: <file_sha256>.zst ...>
├── certificate.pem
├── dirs.txt
├── metadata.jwt
├── persistents.txt
├── regulars.txt
└── symlinks.txt
```

## Offline OTA image layout

The rootfs of the built image has the following layout:

```text
.
├── manifest.json
├── data
│   ├── <OTA_file_sha256hash> # uncompressed file
│   ├── <OTA_file_sha256hash>.zst # zst compressed file
│   └── ...
└── meta
    ├── <idx> # corresponding to the order in manifest.image_meta
    │   └── <list of OTA metafiles...>
    └── ...
        └── <list of OTA metafiles...>

```

This layout is compatible with external cache source's layout, which means any offline OTA image can natually directly be used as external cache source recognized by otaproxy(but user still needs to prepare the device either by themselves and extract the offline OTA image rootfs onto the prepared device, or prepare the device with this **offline_ota_image_builder** package).

> Please check [External cache source](https://tier4.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/WEB/pages/2813984854/OTA+cache+mechanism+design+for+otaproxy#External-cache-source) section of the doc for more details.

Reviewer: This link is also internal.

## Offline OTA image Manifest schema

Offline OTA image's rootfs contains a `manifest.json` file with a single JSON object in it. This file includes the information related to this offline OTA image, including the bundled OTA images' metadata.

```json
{
  "schema_version": 1,
  "image_layout_version": 1,
  "build_timestamp": <UNIX_timestamp>,
  "data_size": <size_of_data_folder>,
  "data_files_num": <files_num_of_data_folder>,
  "meta_size": <size_of_meta_folder>,
  "image_meta": [
    {
      "ecu_id": <ecu_id>,
      "image_version": "<image_version>",
      "ota_metadata_version": 1,
    },
    ...
  ],
}
```

> Please check [Build external cache source](https://tier4.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/WEB/pages/2813984854/OTA+cache+mechanism+design+for+otaproxy#Build-external-cache-source) section for more details.

Reviewer: This link is also internal.

```

## Manual

```text
usage: offline_ota_image_builder [-h] --image <ECU_NAME>:<IMAGE_PATH>[:<IMAGE_VERSION>]
                                 [-o <OUTPUT_PATH>] [-w <DEVICE>] [--confirm-write-to]

Helper script that builds offline OTA image with given OTA image(s) as external cache source or for
offline OTA use.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --image <ECU_NAME>:<IMAGE_PATH>[:<IMAGE_VERSION>]
                        OTA image for <ECU_ID> as tar archive(compressed or uncompressed), this
                        option can be used multiple times to include multiple images.
  -o <OUTPUT_PATH>, --output <OUTPUT_PATH>
                        save the generated image rootfs into tar archive to <OUTPUT_PATH>.
  -w <DEVICE>, --write-to <DEVICE>
                        write the image to <DEVICE> and prepare the device as external cache source
                        device.
  --confirm-write-to    writing generated to <DEVICE> without inter-active confirmation, only valid
                        when used with -w option.

> ```

Reviewer: It is better to move this block right after `### Build image and export` section to understand the tool usage, and it is better to add an explanation after that.

# Offline OTA image builder

`tools.offline_ota_image_builder` is a helper package for bundling offline OTA image from the OTA images build by ota-metadata(or images compatible with OTA image specification).
Built image can be used as external cache source for otaproxy, or used by full offline OTA helper util to trigger fully offline OTA update.

**NOTE**: full offline OTA helper util is not yet implemented.

It provides the following features:

> 1. build offline OTA image from several OTA images,

Reviewer: I'd like to fix `several OTA images` like this:
```suggestion
1. build offline OTA image from the OTA images build by ota-metadata(or images compatible with OTA image specification)
```

Author: Updated in [9e61c5e](https://github.com/tier4/ota-client/pull/252/commits/9e61c5e069f7192b4e800e9f8b23b31253414502).
